The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Cats have supersonic hearing
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
Female cats are polyestrous
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Most cats adore sardines.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
